# Dataset-Generation-and-Evaluation-for-Natural-Question-Generation

## Abstract
Natural Language Processing (NLP) is one of the Artificial Intelligence
branches that analyzes and understands language as humans
do. NLP has many applications such as Information Retrievals, Information
Extraction, Question-Answering, Machine Translation,
etc. This project is an NLP project as it needs the machine to understand
a sentence like a human and generate a natural-sounding
question based on its understanding. This project aims to Create a
Question-Answering dataset that contains natural questions and
a single sentence as the answer to each question. We emphasize
having natural questions so the resulting dataset would be practical
to use in the question generation tasks in the real world. We will
then test the sentences of the resulting dataset with BART and T5
models to generate their corresponding questions. After generating
the questions, We will evaluate the quality of the dataset and the
performance of the models used to create this dataset based on both
automatic and human evaluation.

Question generation is a task in NLP which concerns how to generate
a question from a text document. This project aims to generate
a sentence-based QA dataset that can be used as training data in
the real world’s NQG (Natural Question Generation) tasks. The
questions generated using a system trained by this dataset should
be like the questions that a human would ask (that is why we call
them natural questions). To achieve this goal, the questions in the
dataset itself need to be natural, too, as it gives the ability to think
like a human (when generating a question) to the system. Also, the
sentences in the generated dataset should be definite and complete
so, “good” questions can be generated by these sentences.

## Introduction

Question generation can have many applications, such as in
education, reading comprehension, and developing a knowledge
base for conversational systems.

The most effective methods for the question generation task are
to use neural sequence-to-sequence methods. These methods need
a large set of labeled training data (Question-Answer pairs). There
are many existing datasets like Google’s Natural Question Dataset,
such as SQuAD, but the downside of them is that the questions in
them are not natural, meaning that the questions were not humanly
generated, and they are obtained by looking at the answers through;
crowdsourcing for example. There are other datasets too that have
natural questions, such as NewsQA, but they also have another
downside which is that they have a paragraph as their long answer,
which has lots of information, and many questions can be generated
from that one paragraph alone. They also have a word or phrase
long short answer, which does not mean anything special to the
system.

In these datasets, sentence-based natural Question Answering
datasets are lacking, and some neural question generation models
can only take a single sentence as an answer to generate questions
which would mean that by having the mentioned datasets, there
would not be an easy way to use some of neural question generation
models.

After generating the desired dataset, we will evaluate two popular
and well-respected neural question generation methods, BART
and T5, using the generated dataset.

To conclude, the objectives of this project are as follows:

(1) Create a Question-Answering dataset that contains natural
questions, and a single sentence as the answer to each
question.We emphasize containing natural questions so the
resulting dataset would be practical to use in the question
generation tasks in the real world.

(2) Evaluate two state-of-the-art neural question generation
methods. BART and T5.



## The details about the projects can be found in the below PDF file.
 Also a "HOW TO USE THE SOFTWARE" is enclosed in the "Appandices" part of the report.
 
[Project Report.pdf](https://github.com/razaviah/Dataset-Generation-and-Evaluation-for-Natural-Question-Generation/files/9128412/Final.Project.Report_Amirhossein.Razavi_EECS4088_Professor.An_V2.pdf)
